.TH PKMN 1 "July 2026" "pkmn 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pkmn \- standalone Pokemon Red save workflow command line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pkmn
.I domain command
[arguments] [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pkmn
provides internal Pokemon Red decoding, inspection, validation, canonical JSON, archival reconstruction, semantic generation, comparison, proof, post-emulator validation, and copy-first editing. It does not require Save Genie or Save Generator executables or a ROM.
.SH GENERAL COMMANDS
.TP
.B pkmn --help
Show available and reserved commands.
.TP
.B pkmn --version
Show the CLI version.
.TP
.B pkmn doctor [--deep] [--format text|json]
Report standalone internal-engine readiness.
.TP
.B pkmn completion bash|zsh|fish
Generate shell completion source.
.TP
.B pkmn config show [--format text|json]
Show immutable compiled safety and default policy.
.TP
.B pkmn get-all-cmds [--format text|json|markdown] [--output FILE]
Show or save the complete command catalog compiled into this version.
.SH RED COMMANDS
.TP
.B pkmn red summary SAVE [--format text|json|markdown] [--output FILE]
Summarize trainer progress, party, inventory, storage, and supported world state.
.TP
.B pkmn red inspect|validate SAVE [--format json]
Inspect or validate Red SRAM and all known checksums.
.TP
.B pkmn red decode SAVE [--output FILE] [--include-physical-image|--no-physical-image]
Write deterministic canonical Red JSON without overwriting existing output.
.TP
.B pkmn red edit SAVE
Run the interactive copy-first editor.
.TP
.B pkmn red begin-edit|edit-session|pokemon|bag|progress|pending-edits|validate-edit|end-edit ...
Run durable scriptable edit sessions.
.TP
.B pkmn red validate-post-emulator BEFORE AFTER
Validate and classify a manual emulator round trip.
.TP
.B pkmn red repair-checksums SAVE [--output COPY]
Write a checksum-repaired copy and report without changing SAVE.
.TP
.B pkmn red events list|search|show ...
Discover the verified named-event catalog.
.TP
.B pkmn red validate-batch|decode-batch ...
Run multi-save validation or transactional decoding.
.SH RED JSON COMMANDS
.TP
.B pkmn rjson inspect|validate FILE [--format json] [--profile PROFILE]
Validate canonical schema, semantics, and optional physical image.
.TP
.B pkmn rjson generate FILE [OUTPUT]
Generate a deterministic semantic save without using physicalImage authority.
.TP
.B pkmn rjson reconstruct FILE [--output OUTPUT]
Perform exact archival reconstruction requiring physicalImage.
.TP
.B pkmn rjson migrate FILE | pkmn rjson schema | pkmn rjson generate-batch ...
Enrich compatible canonical documents or generate several transactionally.
.SH COMPARISON AND PROOF
.TP
.B pkmn compare progress OLDER NEWER
Explain gameplay changes between two valid backups from the same playthrough.
.TP
.B pkmn compare physical A B
Compare save bytes, hashes, percentages, and regions.
.TP
.B pkmn compare semantic A B
Classify field-aware canonical semantic differences.
.TP
.B pkmn proof red SAVE [--output-dir DIR] [--zip|--zip-output ZIP]
Run decode, generation, re-decode, comparison, determinism, isolation, report, and emulator-checklist workflows.
.TP
.B pkmn proof post-emulator --before SAVE --after SAVE [--proof-dir DIR]
Complete the manual emulator proof gate after validating expected drift.
.TP
.B pkmn proof verify DIRECTORY|ZIP
Verify proof artifact hashes, ZIP safety, JSON, and generated checksums.
.SH SAFETY
Inputs and existing outputs are not overwritten. Semantic generation never uses physicalImage as authority. Reconstruction is explicitly archival. Arbitrary runtime location editing is disabled. Proof packages contain save data and require publication review.
.PP
Commands that create outputs accept explicit --auto-suffix where documented, producing numbered alternatives without weakening the no-overwrite default.
.SH FUTURE DOMAINS
fred, frjson, and convert are disabled placeholders until separately verified and emulator-proven FireRed engines exist.
.SH FILES
Installed Red template: share/pkmn/resources/pokemon-red-usa-europe-v1.template.bin
.SH LICENSE
MIT License, MAQ / BiG MAQ Studios stewardship note. Independent and not affiliated with Nintendo, Game Freak, Creatures, or The Pokemon Company.
.SH SEE ALSO
README.md, docs/BEGINNERS_GUIDE.md, docs/COMPLETE_USAGE_GUIDE.md, docs/ALL_COMMANDS.md, docs/COMMAND_REFERENCE.md, docs/EDIT_MODE.md, docs/PROOF_WORKFLOW.md
